.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Farsight Security, Inc.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.Dd current-date via make
.Dt sratunnel 1 AXA
.Os " "
.Sh NAME
.Nm sratunnel
.Nd SIE Remote Access (SRA) Tunnel
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Op Fl VdOR
.Op Fl r Ar rate-limit
.Fl s Ar SRA-server
.br
.Fl c Ar channel
.Fl w Ar watch
.Fl a Ar anomaly
.Fl o Ar out-addr
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Sratunnel
transfers selected Security Information Exchange (SIE) data
from remote servers to the local network.
The connection to the server is created and restored after problems
with binary exponential delays between retries.
.Pp
.Nm Sratunnel
is a programming example for using the Advanced Exchange Access (AXA)
applications programming interface, the AXA protocol.
It also demonstrates the use of the AXA helper library,
.Pa libaxa.a .
.Ss OPTIONS
The following arguments are available:
.Bl -tag -width 3n
.It Fl V
displays the version of
.Nm
and its preferred version of the AXA protocol.
.It Fl d
turns on tracing and debugging reports.
.It Fl O
turns on a spinning bar output indicator on stdout.
.It Fl R
switches from SRA to RAD mode.
In SRA mode,
.Fl a
is not allowed
and
.Fl c
is required.
In RAD mode,
.Fl a
is required
and
.Fl c
is not allowed.
.It Fl r Ar rate-limit
tells the server to send at most
.Ar rate-limit
SIE messages or raw IP packets per second.
.It Fl s Ar server
specifies the server that is the source of the SIE data.
The server can be specified with any of the following:
.Bl -tag -width /ud/socket
.It Sm off ssh: Oo Ar user No @ Oc Ar host Sm on
The server will be contacted using the ssh protocol.
These connections usually use default ssh
.Xr ssh_config 1
files to specify the required public keys
and optionally the fully qualified host name and user names associated
with the public key.
Use
.Fl dddd
to diagnose ssh connection problems.
.It Sm off tcp: Ar user No @ Ar host,port Sm on
A host name and port number uses clear text over TCP/IP.
.It Sm off unix: Ar user No @ Ar /ud/socket Sm on
The path name of UNIX domain socket connects to a local server.
.El
.It Fl c Ar channel
There must be at least one
.Fl c
argument naming an SIE channel that server will watch for interesting
.Em nmsg
messages or IP packets.
.Pp
Channels are specified as
.Ar chXX
or
.Ar all
.It Fl w Ar watch
There must be at least one
.Fl w
with an SRA or RAD watch to specify the interesting SIE messages or
dark channel IP packets.
.so srawatch.man
.El
.Pp
With
.Fl R
and so in RAD mode, channel and error watches are not permitted.
In addition,
.Ar (shared)
can be appended to
.Ar IP
and
.Ar
dns
watches to indicate addresses or domains that are not used exclusively.
.It Fl a Ar anomaly Op parameters
specifies an RAD anomaly detection module and its parameters with
.Fl R
and so in RAD mode.
There must be at least one
.Fl a
in RAD mode.
.It Fl o Ar out-addr
specifies
the destination of the SIE data.
It can be forwarded as
.Em nmsg
messages to a UDP or TCP port
or as raw IP packets to a file, FIFO, or network interface.
.ds CT
.so fwd.man
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following sends all new domain reports on channel 212
seen by the SRA server at example.com
to the local UDP port 8000 on 127.0.0.1:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
sratunnel -s "ssh user@example.com" -o nmsg:127.1,8000 \\
	-c ch212 -w ch=ch212
.Ed
.Pp
Beware of specifying more data than will fit in the TCP/IP connections
between the server and
.Nm .
The following is likely to be only a network stress test:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
sratunnel -s "ssh user@example.com" -o nmsg:127.1,8000 \\
	-c all -w ip=128.0/1  -w ip=0/1
.Ed
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width config
.It Ar config
is the
.Xr ssh_config 5
configuration file used with
.Ar connect\ ssh\ ...
connections.
"Host" stanzas in the file can simplify connections to \*(SR servers.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sratool 1 ,
.Xr radtool 1 ,
.Xr mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr nmsgtool 1 ,
and
.Xr srad 8 .
