.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Farsight Security, Inc.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.Dd current-date via make
.Dt sratool 1 AXA
.Os " "
.ds SR SRA
.Sh NAME
.Nm sratool
.Nd SIE Remote Access (SRA) tool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Op Fl VdN
.Op Fl F Ar fields
.Op Fl c Ar cfile
.Op commands
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Sratool
connects and sends Advanced Exchange Access (AXA) protocol messages
to SIE Remote Access (SRA) servers
and displays the responses.
It can also tunnel SIE data like
.Xr sratunnel 1 .
.Pp
.Nm Sratool
is a programming example for the Advanced Exchange Access (AXA)
applications programming interface to \*(SR servers, the AXA protocol.
It also demonstrates the use of the AXA helper library,
.Pa libaxa.a .
.Pp
Start using
.Nm
with the
.Ic connect
command described below.
Use one or more
.Ic watch
commands to specify interesting patterns of SIE messages or IP packets.
Limit the number of packets or messages transmitted from the SRA server
or displayed with the
.Ic rate limit
and
.Ic count
commands.
Turn on one or more channels of messages or packets with the
.Ic channel
command.
.Pp
Unless more output is enabled with the
.Ic verbose
command,
most messages or packets are displayed in two lines.
The first line includes the channel number on which it was received,
the SIE message vendor of the message,
the name of the field that caused the message to be selected,
and the contents of the field.
The second line is a summary of the message or packet.
.Pp
When more verbose output is enabled or when
.Nm
does not understand the message,
IP packets are printed in ASCII
and SIE messages are printed in the standard
.Ic nmsg
presentation format also seen from
.Xr nmsgtool 1 .
.Ss OPTIONS
.so options.man
.Ss COMMANDS
.Nm
executes commands read from the standard input.
Command history is available if the standard input is a terminal.
Multiple commands can be specified at once by separating them with semicolons.
The following commands are available:
.Bl -tag -width 3n
.so cmds.man
.It Ar tag Ic watch Brq Ar ip=IP[/n] | dns=[*.]dom | ch=chN | errors
Tell the SRA server to send nmsg messages or IP packets that are to,
from, or contain the specified IP addresses,
that contain the specified domain name,
that arrived at the server on the specifed SIE channel,
or are SIE messages or IP packets that could not be decoded.
.Ar Tag
is a number labeling the watch.
.so srawatch.man
.El
.It Oo Ar tag Oc Ic list watches
With a tag (numeric label), list the specified watch.
Without a tag, list all watches.
.It Ic channel Bro Ar list | Bro Ar on|off Brc Bro Ar all|chN Brc Brc
List available SRA channels or enable or disable
one or all SIE channels.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following captures and displays one SIE
.Ic newdomain
message.
The "dns=*." watch or pattern was matched by the "ehost-services131.com"
domain in DNS CNAME rdata.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
% sratool
> connect ssh uname@srvr.example.com
 HELLO srad version 0.1.0 SRA protocol 1
1 OK USER uname authorized
> ch 211 on
* OK CHANNEL ON/OFF channel ch211 on
> 1 watch dns=*.
1 OK WATCH started
1 ch211 SIE newdomain rdata=CNAME ehost-services131.com
www.naturalgassuppliers.org/CNAME: naturalgassuppliers.org
.Ed
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width config
.It Ar fields
defines relationships among and meanings of SIE message fields.
Its contents should rarely if ever need to be changed.
.It Ar config
is the
.Xr ssh_config 5
configuration file used with
.Ar connect\ ssh\ ...
connections.
"Host" stanzas in the file can simplify connections to \*(SR servers.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sratool 1 ,
.Xr sratunnel 1 ,
.Xr mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr nmsgtool 1 ,
.Xr srad 8 ,
and
.Xr radd 8 .
